---
title: "Computers Don't Byte: XAI"
collection: talks
type: "podcast"
permalink: /talks/2024-03-25-podcast
venue: "LIACS podcast"
date: 2024-03-25
location: "Online"
header:
  teaser: "teasers/podcast.png"
  og_image: "teasers/podcast.png"
---


🚢⚙️ **Exciting News: "Computers Don't Byte" Podcast by LIACS!** 🎙️

I'm thrilled to announce my appearance on the "Computers Don't Byte" podcast, an initiative by the Leiden Institute of Advanced Computer Science (LIACS), where we dived into an incredibly timely and fascinating topic: **Explainable AI (XAI) and its transformative potential in predictive maintenance**.

🎧 **Episode Title: "Can Explainable AI Save Lives?"**

In this episode, we explore the essence and critical importance of making AI systems explainable. As we stand on the brink of a technological revolution, the ability to understand and trust the decisions made by AI is paramount, especially in sectors where lives are at stake.

**Why is Explainable AI Important?**
- **Transparency:** It's essential for users and stakeholders to comprehend how AI models arrive at their decisions.
- **Trust:** The more we understand AI decisions, the more we can trust them, especially in critical applications.
- **Accountability:** With explainability comes the ability to ensure AI systems operate fairly and responsibly.

**Highlighting Our Project:**
I had the opportunity to discuss our cutting-edge project XAIPre focused on **explainable predictive maintenance for the maritime industry**. This initiative is not just about enhancing efficiency and safety but also about pioneering a sustainable future for the maritime industry through the power of (X)AI.

**The Impact:**
This project has the potential to revolutionize how we maintain and operate maritime vessels, drastically reducing downtime and preventing accidents before they occur, thereby potentially saving lives.

**Listen & Engage:**
I invite you to listen to this episode on Spotify: [Can Explainable AI Save Lives?](https://open.spotify.com/episode/3fgHR2c8FvGoxTL5Zzouzu?si=1lnaaUrZQTmZx3-0tli6bQ). Let's ignite a discussion on the importance of explainable AI and its applications across industries. I look forward to hearing your thoughts and insights on this vital topic.
